bonus yen I tried to volunteer to be in
the [ __ ] you know the cube of truth
[ __ ] you know the trick the cube of
truth [ __ ]
they wouldn't they wouldn't let me do
cube of truth and what told other people
that they're like flabbergasted because
of course all these groups are like Oh
everyone's welcome welcome to
participate everyone's welcome to get
involved nope
but some people are welcome at some
heart if I do an open mic night in a
comedy club I think I can really reach
like 200 people in a more meaningful way
than standing on a street corner in Los
Angeles so that's what I'm talking about
I'm talking I'm not gonna be talking
about comparing street activism to
something perfect I'm just talking about
comparing it to like real alternatives
you may have access to but I have
already mentioned one of the other
problems which is just the barriers to
entry so for me I couldn't even
participate in a silent protest the
level of censor so that's a silent
protest that cube of truth I wouldn't
even talk I just stand there in my vegan
t-shirt it's that thing that would be my
job would be just to stand there holding
you know a TV screen right and I
couldn't do that cuz they're there
whatever reason the snobs like I don't
know why me I don't like I nobody told
me why is it that they're too left-wing
or they're too right when look why I
don't know but they shut me out of
participating in a silent protest if I
get on stage as a stand-up comedian
you know who's who's the gatekeeper
who's the barrier to entry maybe the
audience is gonna laugh maybe they're
gonna boo you know maybe we're gonna
have a good time maybe not right but
that's really different right and maybe
maybe I'm gonna listen to the audience
maybe they're gonna talk a little too
and I'm gonna respond to that and maybe
I'm gonna shut them down there's there's
a bit of a dynamic that way but you know
when you think about it that's really
question who are the gatekeepers so I
know I know quest doesn't want to roll
with DXE anymore so now if you want to
if you want to protest who do you roll
with and because again you can be a
one-man protest I think it's a lot worse
than being a stand-up comedian but like
you guys must now be trying to
compromise with somebody Mercy for
Animals or some group any on each one as
to what Mercy for Animals there are
things that are that are messed up about
them
pet other things that you know you got
to make different compromises teach
these groups right
[Music]
Banas yen hey sorry so I mentor I'm
interrupting a social evening evidently
ya hear that stuff the antler the whole
antler restaurant Oh No
so there's a restaurant that specializes
in deer meat or sling coal antler I'm
guessing or what one thing those video
that went pretty viral the UM the owner
came to the to the front of the window
and started butchering like a deer
laying over trying the act
this pissed me off why not and and that
one quickly viral so he was actually and
it was it was a little bit shocking
actually we didn't expect that except
expect that protest to become some viral
of all of the things they could have
climbed in bird the chef and the owner
of the restaurant brought out and laying
if you like chopped in front of activist
here's interesting story I guess because
there's that a bit of a conflict this
media finds it yeah what you you live
yes I'll just conventionally you know
like you have to live really close to
this stuff in food services we've got a
college that we're gonna study vegan
baking at and it's a college that does
special courses in plant-based cuisine
plant-based cooking look they are they
are sort of Pro vegan they have several
vegans on staff but at the same time
there's like a poster up like next month
take our special class in like how to
butcher a hog how to save money by like
buying a whole hog and butchering it
yourself you don't really these special
classes and stuff of that it's on the
same table
it sort of same you know they do the
special class unlike vegan cuisine and
to do this special class and how to
butcher a hog and it's like you know
we've all got to get along you literally
don't have a choice you know do you know
you want to study vegan cuisine here
great we also do classes on hog
butchering
you know the attention over the girl in
dxd that covered herself an animal feces
before now that got like no media
attention rather like laying in this
room
fecal matter and like a little argument
between store owner and it's weird its
attraction on the Internet
this is this is the low-hanging fruit
phenomenon right like can you if you
want to dump down your content to make
it relevant to that kind of mass media
IV that's it's a very different creative
challenge no I have never even heard of
it
like I'm just being honest you I've
never even heard of it I am well gee who
do you think would have invited me to
that do you think Jordan would have
invited me to go that no I mean like
there's not a lot of people here
we saw her down the street the other day
he's looking he's looking like a Ken
doll he's real well he's real well
manicured but yeah I bumped into George
there hey man what's up hey yeah yeah
you walk you walk past each other from
the other time but no even at the even
at the event afterwards you know I did
that video with the vegan bodybuilder
that's on my channel you I met him at
Jordans event so I was you know it's
jazz to talk to him and he was really
excited to talk to me and we did this
video together and Jordan came by and
like stiffly shook my hand but like dude
I mean you know like there's that
mentality some people have the mentality
like here's the pie and now we have to
fight over who gets a bigger piece of
the pie or they think of it as a static
image of a pie and then there are people
who see things productively like look
every day we're making new pies like
today we made 10 tomorrow we can make
100 you with me let's all start making
pie like if we cooperate there can be
more pie for everybody we're you're not
seeing it it's like a finite amount of
Phi that we got to fight over but where
we got to collaborate to be more
productive so there's more pie
everywhere but like they would most of
the time it never gets talked about but
no nobody has invited me to any camp I
tried to volunteer to be in the [ __ ]
you know the cube of truth [ __ ]
you know the trick the cube of truth
[ __ ] they wouldn't they wouldn't let me
do cube of truth and what told other
people that they're like flabbergasted
because of course all these groups are
like oh everyone's welcome welcome to
participate everyone's welcome to get
involved nope but some people are
welcome at some heart so you know like I
go see
they just they kicked me out of the
Facebook group and then yeah I just said
yeah okay I'll come because the Facebook
group it's a Facebook group that only
exists for that purpose to like you know
show up basically you know and and some
instructions about how to behave and
stuff like that you know what I mean so
they keep me on the Facebook group and
remember I told this to this other guy
Harrison Nathan I was like look man this
is the reality like I don't live in Los
Angeles or New York like I don't have
like 10 vegan groups to choose between
there are like two vegan groups here and
I can't work with either one of them and
then after after I skied to the Facebook
Rebecca I wrote to Jordan like hey
what's up and he wouldn't reply Jordan
and his girlfriend wouldn't reply says
like okay so got kicked out of for no
reason with no explanation I'm just not
welcome to attend the only the only you
know form of protest vegan protest
that's ongoing in my town but when I
told Harrison Nathan this his response
was well look man if you wanna do street
protest you wouldn't let that stop you
you'd go and like get your own table and
get your own booth and you start like
you know in a sense you're right in a
sense I can I can stand there alone on
the street I can be a one-man vegan
protest
I can I can or like right now this
YouTube video more than 10 people will
see it like I'm not gonna be wildly
optimist here but this could have a
meaningful impact this video on more
people's lives than me standing on that
street corner and that for me that
really is the choice I've got for
someone else they'll have different
options and different opportunities but
it's true but I mean anyway look you
already knows for me I see so this will
come back to my first question I see the
main positive thing about protesting on
the street being the other vegans I meet
you know the other people who are there
to protest is the viewing it as a rally
viewing it as networking viewing it as
you know sharing within the vegan side
that I think is positive but like in
terms of like my interactions with
meat-eaters like yeah yes it can be I
mean you know look at random you can
meet people who really want to hear the
message but you know you can also do
things so you're not meeting people at a
tran
but yeah my question to you was about
that the impact on your psychology and
behavior if you're out there if you're
out there shodhan that randoms every day
between outreach and shouting oh and
look you can have the conversations but
it's like under the context I think what
you're doing with like you you know if
you're ten people and you're like hey
take this leaflet you're all doing the
same time it's different than you know
standing like within proximity of each
other and just having those
conversations ask your what's the other
kids
Julie carb strong does a lot of that
yeah you have those conversations like
those can be pretty or done and I also
think I don't feel at all that Street
activism is a static thing I mean it is
repetitive but I think there's
innovation happening all the time it is
like a learning process I view it
personally as more of a practice like
meditation like yoga like any of those
things where you just keep doing it and
evading you get better and better
oh boy it effective so you know a lot of
times we feel like we are always saying
the same thing I mean there's nothing
wrong with that right because there's um
there's certain sort key arguments that
you expect after a while well you know
people questions it's not even arguments
just questions about veganism but then
on from our side from our perspective
like we just try to become better at
have seen those questions like effective
and efficient allergies trying to get
because I think I asked this because we
doctors are also recognize that you
can't do things all the time
so finding finding ways to create
and even though I don't static at all I
think I knew I knew one example of a guy
for whom it was really psychologically
positive he started off with some kind
of learning disability and I think it
wasn't the learning disability itself
but that he grew up very isolated
because of his learning disability and
oh that's right and as also his family
background was really religious
they were like Christian fundamentalist
so he never really talked to anybody
growing up and for him doing vegan
Street activism was really like his
first time talking to strangers and he
went from being a very awkward person to
being very confident public speaker
through hundreds and hundreds of
repetitions of having those same those
same conversations over and over again
yeah I don't know though I mean in terms
of in terms of our culture I mean you
know who taught who talks on the street
you know if you think about the forum as
opposed to renting a hall at the
University as opposed to you know any
other kind of conference or event where
people come in and talk about politics
to think about morality or something I
mean the street corner is almost
exclusively associated with religious
fundamentalists and and crackheads and
idiots right maniacs I mean you just
think about the word street the term
street preacher you know what I mean
you're kind of starting you're kind of
starting on a week basis by approaching
a stranger on the street that way I'm
really I'm really just saying compared
to the alternatives you may have not
everyone may have those those
alternatives but I think strategically
that's worth that's worth thinking about
too right I mean you know I was involved
in the theater in Toronto like you can
also do politics onstage in a theater
where people have bought a ticket and
sit down to listen to what you have to
say much more accessible because I
understand you know sometimes in a in a
proper in a forum where university
setting you can have a more constructive
dialogue happening it's pretty well
facilitated and moderated whereas where
the street levels know like getting
really messy but at the same time you
know there's it's like pros and cons
both right level it's accessible oh and
I I disagree I think no you kind of
cherry pick a little bit there though
those kind of dirty negative aspects of
life people commonly associated Street
those are really specific examples and
yeah you know historically colorful get
the word out there
I think cherry picking I think share
picking is inevitable to some extent cuz
I do I want I do want to talk about
particular examples but I don't I don't
really value as the the academic side of
the spectrum one of the most powerful
political influences in my childhood was
Chris Rock the stand-up comedian right I
mean Chris Rock talks about politics on
a stage and you can't say it's not
inaccessible I mean he reaches the
lowest common denominator but I think
Chris Rock is one of the most powerful
political demagogues of his generation
you know this comedy today I think is
less less political than it was a few
decades ago because he's gotten older
and you know like most comedians his
material changes but like I'm gonna go
to Los Angeles for about five days if I
do an open mic night in a comedy club I
think I can really reach like 200 people
in a more meaningful way than standing
on a street corner in Los Angeles so
that's what I'm talking about
I'm talking I'm not gonna talking about
comparing Street activism to something
perfect I'm just talking about comparing
it to like real alternatives you may
have access to and you know that's why I
mentioned University exam on a
university campus talking the University
H people all the time anyway so just for
me that's easy but I agreed there I
think there are a lot of like did others
mythology about how great universities
are as a place to spread ideas and it's
frankly it's [ __ ]
but yeah sure I think that's that's the
kind of question I have to ask myself
you know happening States having a
platform in a more control setting is
not necessarily always I mean you know
like ideologues and preachers write
those megachurches and and things like
that you know they're they're whole
bunch of issues sure I think the end of
the day you know having people go be
just participating in political issues
having political discussions at a street
level or a democracy and healthy I don't
but I have already mentioned one of the
other problems which is just the
barriers to entry so for me I couldn't
even participate in a silent protest the
level of censor so that's a silent
protest that cube of truth I wouldn't
even talk I just stand there in my vegan
t-shirt it's that thing that would be my
job would be just to stand there holding
you know a TV screen right and I
couldn't do that cuz they're there
whatever reason the snobs like I don't
know why me I don't like I nobody told
me why is it that they're too left-wing
or they're too right when look why I
don't know but they shut me out of
participating in a silent protest if I
get on stage as a stand-up comedian
you know who's who's the gatekeeper
who's the barrier to entry maybe the
audience is gonna laugh maybe they're
gonna boo you know maybe we're gonna
have a good time maybe not right but
that's really different right and maybe
maybe I'm gonna listen to the audience
maybe they're gonna talk a little too
and I'm gonna respond to that and maybe
I'm gonna shut them down there's there's
a bit of a dynamic that way but you know
when you think about it that's really
question who are the gatekeepers so I
know I know Quest doesn't want to roll
with DXE anymore so now if you want to
if you want to protest who do you roll
with and because again you can be a
one-man protest I think it's a lot worse
than being a stand-up comedian but like
you guys must now be trying to
compromise with somebody Mercy for
Animals or some group any on each one as
to what Mercy for Animals there are
things that are that are messed up about
them pedda there are things that you
know you got to make different
compromises teach these groups
I'm all about it but like I said for me
the street activism I see the positive
thing as being meeting other vegans but
I think if I want to talk to meet eaters
I think it's gonna be stand-up comedy
when I'm dead serious I was talking to
the Tcat Tcat has a YouTube channel
he's been going to open mic nights doing
vegan stand-up comedy so he opened his
set by saying yeah I'm vegan
I only meat when I climb over the fence
and kill my neighbor's dog for the
audience who found this so offensive
they thought it was racist against
Asians even recision that they shut the
show down he was not after he was gonna
do all set a vegan come it's like you
learned something from eating other
vegans but like there's different forms
there's like yo yo yo meat in the
beginning and then you grab stock and we
placed and then you go to your corner
and you do your thing and you buy
yourself the conversations with you and
the other person that you know if you
grab their attention and it can be very
like very you know it's outside in the
street but it's mid setting in terms of
just exchanging ideas and answering
questions where they don't feel like
there's like a whole bunch of people
listening damn we're judging them you're
what they're gonna stay and if you
definite enter your like sincere enough
and the way you're willing to give the
information and hear where they're at
even more effective than having a group
of people who think the little bit
information busy focusing on a mass
masterly conversation like you and me
right here and now get a lot of each
other not so I think there is sure you
know um I do have that experience at
some extent cuz people approached me on
the street they sometimes they
approached me because they know me from
YouTube they're like oh that's the vegan
guy but sometimes they approach me just
as I'm wearing a label that says vegan
like I'm wearing vegan on my sleeve or
on my shirt we have this shirt right now
is a vegan shirt whatever you know so
people do approach me but because
they're approaching me that means they
want to learn or than want ask a
question it's different than me like
walking up to a stranger being like hey
I want to talk to you about veganism the
answer the answer is then probably gonna
be no but I know I know you're you're
saying you have these kinds of these
kinds of positive experiences that's
that's kind of their strategy as they
wait for people they only they almost
exclusively only talk to people who are
interested in actually being a high
percentage of almost all their
conversations are much more productive
and pretty much everyone who stop by and
have a conversation appreciate about me
it's something that's been on their mind
and and having someone to talk to
clarify some questions they have and
then you can offer them resources to
help them start going and I think that
is well I agree completely I mean I
think it's interesting to the cube of
truth is kind of emerged as the most
successful method at a time when like
just two years ago there were really a
lot of other methods that were more
popular I think it's because people
tried the other methods and then they
tried cube of truth and they found
exactly what you're describing my father
made most of his living out of
propaganda basically and one of the
things he always taught people this was
part of his business and the propaganda
businesses part of his personal
philosophy also he said you have to
decide at the beginning
are you aiming for informational
education that was how he term it or you
trying to achieve a change in attitude
attitudinal education that's interesting
because as vegans sometimes were trying
to do both sometimes to solve one of the
other right like do I really want to get
this person specific facts about
slaughterhouses or about ecology is that
what I'm trying to get across here or am
I trying to get them to ask questions or
just question their own attitude so I
should my dad's classic example of that
was when you're teaching white people
about the history of Native Americans
like you can teach them the dates of
specific massacres or specific incidents
or how many people died of this plague
or that policeman and he says no like
most of this isn't really the point this
isn't really what you want to get bogged
down in what you want to be focused on
is okay people have come in with these
sets of assumptions about Native
Americans to give an example they may
have the assumption that all Native
Americans just lived in tents that they
just lived in teepees and you're trying
to challenge them say hey look if you
actually look at their history of
architecture they lived in cities and
towns they had buildings like this this
is part of the history and it's not
about particular facts it's about
attitudes so I actually I kind of agree
with you that cube of truth really works
especially if it's about a confrontation
with facts where it's like hey look
about greenhouse gases this matters this
doesn't where's putting those things in
perspective guess what the greenhouse
gases from meat it's way worse than you
think it is I think that kind of
approach can be really really useful for
that but in terms of getting people to
question and take on a new attitude
I do think like comedians like Chris
Rock you know confronting people with
unexpected you know incongruous
contrasts you know in his case often
about race but about political questions
whether related to race or not I do
think that can be really effective and I
do think for people who like literally
never heard the word vegan before I
never thought about it you know maybe
stand-up comedy and those things in
being positive and you know sorry quest
already knows this about me sorry Fred I
don't even know your name but the guy in
the glasses you may not know this but
you know the other form of activism I've
been leaning heavily on was actually
writing children's storybooks writing
and then trying to get it straight and
published children's storybooks that
deal with the fundamental questions of
veganism in a way where parents can read
them to kids or a school teacher can
read them to kids because it's not going
to be slaughterhouse footage right it's
not going to be cube of truth for
children
u.s. you broach those issues in a way
that gets that attitudinal shift and
that's obviously not it's also not gonna
be hey kids here are specific facts
about greenhouse gases right that's not
that's not you're gonna cross that
bridge yeah children's great so Oliver
and they're more of them now I mean
she's not the only person to me I mean
there is a lot of our vegan children's
literature
yeah and focus books that they
illustrate things and things like that
and that can become I mean even more
adults not just children I think even
for adults stories and narratives or
particle fuels or units or yeah like you
said changing people's attitudes by
presenting to them different
perspectives in the way that they can
either connect both certain emotions and
an empathy very much so cool look guys
uh you know I just moved back from China
I need colleagues I need people to
protest with so I'm not protesting alone
so quest you know give this guy my email
I'm gonna move to Vancouver in September
anyway so maybe we can stand maybe we
can stand on the same street corner in
the pouring rain and do outreach review
No Vancouver's got to be the worst
climate for Street activism to I mean
even Saskatchewan is better for Street
activism but I'm trying to put together
man
so I am I am really happy to meet you I
already know quest but I met I met one
new vegan activist today which I'm
really happy about and I I hope we can
get in touch me some positive bonus yen